---
title: "hello world"
date: 2022-03-05T11:29:09+01:00
draft: false
summary: A Deep Introduction
---

### Who Am I

hi, i'm kat and i'm a 20 year old, pure mathematics undergraduate. it wasn't until i was soon to turn 19 that i fell deep into the rabbit hole of computers. given, i'd always been computer literate from a young age, i hadn't ever questioned them. initially, i was not most interested in programming; rather, i wanted to learn how, at the lowest levels, machines compute arithmetic and network with each other. this steered me down a path many would consider hacking. i started taking apart old machines that lay around just to become more familiar with the parts that govern them. i remember the first time i saw the inside of an old HP Pavilion, the dust that had gathered there abundant. i remember taking that whole computer apart, and never putting it back together. when i graduated high school, i decided to take a gap year. i didn't know what i wanted to do, and i wasted months of that year without conciously seeking some sense of direction. little did i know, i had been tinkering with it the whole year. in the last two months of my gap year, a pivotal moment in my life occurred. i **downloaded Linux**.

i started young using Windows, and i had grown on MacOS, but as i started tinkering with machines more, i realized i not only wanted to take apart old hardware; i wanted to tweak the software on my own machine, or even better, exploit some software on another machine. i became obsessed with cybsecurity, primarily, the offensive side of it; pentesting, exploit engineering, etc.. the first Linux distribution i installed was, you guessed it, _Kali_ Linux. i spent these last two months of my gap year on sites like [HackTheBox](https://hackthebox.com), completing their training and then attempting their challenges. these challenges would have you simulate a penetration test on a machine (or network) with known, exploitable vulnerabilites. i'd complete the easy rated ones by performing recon on the vulnerability, which would usually lead me to some forum post outlining how to carry out the exploit, or even better, a github repository that contains the exploit _and_ directions. it felt so cool to finally capture a flag, or gain root privileges on a machine. but there was a major issue here for me. i wasn't writing any of my exploits, or really, doing any hyper-stimulating work at all (besides maybe my first few _nmap_ scans and _wireshark_ captures). it was at this point i knew i needed to start writing my own software.

since this, i've gone back to school, completed the associates courses for CS and learned 3 programming languages. Python was my first language. while it wouldn't benefit me much for tweaking my own systems, it would make exploit engineering much easier to understand for a noobie like me. i picked up C++ because it was what was taught by my associates program. well, Java was an option, but you know.. i'm reluctant to say i've even learned 3 languages, because C++ is such an incredibly bloated language that i still feel relatively lost in it sometimes. after finishing my courses, i knew i wanted to wield some other low-level systems language that wasn't C related. i chose Rust. i've since pivoted from bloated distros like Ubuntu and Kali to more minimal, time-consuming distributions, such as _Arch_ and _Gentoo_ (i like _Mint_ too!) and i think the me from 2 years ago would be proud to see how much i've learned over this time.

### What Animates Me
i believe that information should be free and open. much of my philosphy with regards to software and knowledge can be attributed to the _Open-source movement_ and the [GNU Manifesto](https://www.gnu.org/gnu/manifesto.en.html). i commit to myself to only develop in the open, and that plays a small part in my reasoning for creating this site in the first place. it's not only the code that should be made free and open; but the knowledge from which those programs stem from and extend. 

above all, i want to play a part in building a future we're all excited about--not just the select few. this requires a freedom of information that is not present in modern societies. how many academic journals are locked behind paywalls? how expensive is an average college tuition? textbooks? how about the proprietary operating system that's helping your browser render this page now? 

information should flow peer-to-peer, not conglomerate-to-you.

### About Deepmeow
**deepmeow** is merely my personal site with no strict posting schedule or format, nor does it abide by any one topic. i've deployed this site as a way for new acquaintances to get to know me a little better; but also, to serve as a platform on which i can document interesting things i may find myself working on, or actively learning. primarily though, you can expect mathematics and computer science adjacent material. however, **deepmeow** is full of surprises, and may be used as a generic blog from time-to-time to talk about all kinds of stuff.